# Study of motor development in preterm infants using machine learning tools
 
## Final project report - MSc Biomedical Engineering at Imperial College London
 
Preterm babies are at high risk of motor impairment, for which early diagnosis and intervention are crucial. Since the nervous system of infants is in continuous change, further understanding of early motor development will allow to define a new age-specific assessment of motor risk. The present study proposes two computational approaches to better understand early motor development in preterm infants. Both methods are computer vision-based and do not rely on the subjective assessment of experts. The first approach identifies low-dimensional movement manifolds that capture most of the infants’ postural variance. The manifolds are spanned by correlated joints movement patterns that reflect motion coordination, and we assess whether these manifolds change as babies grow. The second method aims at understanding how different kinematic features that characterize motor behaviour vary with development, capturing movement variability and complexity. We applied these analyses on longitudinal recordings of preterm babies. Our results indicate that older infants move more and faster than younger ones, and their movements’ variability is higher, but no pronounced coordination changes are found with development. However, our results suggest that if development was assessed within a period longer than 12 weeks, we could observe stronger coordination changes. Therefore, we show the potential of the proposed approaches to study development.
